Confidential                                                                       13/3/2026




                           INTEROPERABILITY LAB
                                     Business case


                                    By Aleksandra Lekić



   1. Laboratory organizational and industrial alignment
On the EU level, the European Strategic Energy Technology (SET) group for HVDC & DC
technologies [1] has defined the goals for the PE-based HVDC operation as:

   •   Short term (until 2027): interoperable multi-terminal multi-vendor HVDC connection
       in Europe;
   •   Medium term (2027-2030): cost effective and scalable multi-terminal multi-vendor
       HVDC system, ready to be included into a stable and resilient AC grid;
   •   Long term (2030-2050): HVDC grid covering both offshore and onshore applications.

SET plan also identifies, besides control interoperability, stability management of PE-
dominated system together with the new modelling methods and tools to improve the overall
system behaviour and mitigate the interactions between AC and DC parts, as the imperative
outcomes. The same document defines the following as the top priority:

“Multi-Vendor Multi Terminal Voltage Source Converter (VSC) HVDC with complimentary
future proof AC/DC hybrid systems assessment and stability management approaches is a
top priority to fulfil climate neutral Europe needs with ambitious aims for offshore renewable
energy.”

The scale of planned offshore energy hubs is significant, as can be seen from Fig. 1, designed
by ENTSO-E as a part of offshore development plans. To support such developments, the
integrated energy system must be adaptable in terms of operation, design, and expansion,
and must also support predictive maintenance. This project emphasizes the role of
integrated and multi-vector energy systems as key enablers of resilient and flexible HVDC-
based energy hubs. It explicitly considers the entire energy hub, including modular multilevel
converter (MMC) terminals and renewable energy sources such as hydrogen systems. Wind
power park modeling and control will build on validated results from previous projects.
Confidential                                                                                     13/3/2026




      Fig. 1 – Plans for offshore developments in Europe, identified by ENTSO-E, picture taken from 1.

Following the path proposed in my vision document, provided as the Annex 1, and following
the ENTSO-E Interoperability Workstream [2], and, thus, the ENTSO-E Innovation Roadmap
[3], I am proposing the establishment of the Interoperability Lab as the part of IEPG/ESE.

The lab will directly addresses key challenges outlined in Cluster 1 of the ENTSO-E roadmap,
specifically focusing on three areas: HVDC interconnections, offshore AC and DC grids, and
power system resilience. It also contributes to Cluster 2 topics: digital twins, and AI-based
technologies, as well as Cluster 3 topics such as hydrogen, RES/VRE integration and
integrated energy systems, as identified in the ENTSO-E roadmap for the upcoming 10 years
[3]. The ENTSO-E Interoperability Workstream expects billions of euros of investments.




             Fig. 2 – C&P in the multi-vendor multi-terminal HVDC electrical grid.




1 ENTSO-E, Offshore Network Development Plans, available at: https://www.entsoe.eu/outlooks/offshore-

hub/tyndp-ondp/
Confidential                                                                        13/3/2026


The concept of control & protection (C&P) within an energy hub is inherently very complex
due to the fast dynamics introduced by power electronic (PE) converters. These converters
operate on timescales ranging from micro- to milli-seconds, significantly faster than
traditional power systems, which typically operate over seconds to minutes. As a result,
effective control of PE converters requires reaction times within microseconds. In the case
of a fault, protection systems should be capable of detecting, isolating and clearing the fault
within just 2-3 milliseconds. This stems from the rapid rise of the DC current during faults,
which can lead to system malfunction and, in extreme cases, even blackouts. Therefore,
ultra-fast and reliable control and protection systems are essential for the safe and stable
operation of PE-dominated power systems like energy hubs.
C&P for HVDC-connected offshore energy hubs are characterized by PE converter control,
and a protection algorithm at the DC connection of the PE converter, which identifies,
isolates and interrupts the faulty connection. These systems require near-instantaneous
and continuous operation. C&P must be carefully designed to be interoperable, scalable and
adaptable. The interoperability depends on various concepts, as depicted in Fig. 2.
Additionally, the power system must be capable of adapting to operate under varying
conditions, supporting future expansion, and enabling effective maintenance.



The Interoperability lab itself would build upon a range of already made interoperability
products, services, and results analyzed in detail in section 2, using the already existing
infrastructure (section 4), and with the idea to be converted into IEPG-owned start-up in the
upcoming 5-10 years.

This lab will be uniquely positioned as an interface for collaboration with TSOs and vendors.
Currently it is one of two inside EU (three if The National HVDC Centre lab is considered, and
five if Etch in Belgium, and DTU lab in Denmark get established).

   2. Lab products
The portfolio of products follows the vision from the Annex 1, and it can be grouped in the
modeling, simulation and control categories. And as a type, classified as software, and
hardware solutions, and testing procedures and setups.

For each product will be given maturity level corresponding to its software/hardware TRL,
and possible path towards the TRL increase, or for the further increase of the applicability of
the solution.
Confidential                                                                     13/3/2026


Software solutions
Software solutions owned by the laboratory can be grouped as: open-source tools,
hierachical control and protection toolboxes, RSCAD/RTDS libraries, compliance toolboxes,
and offline simulation models.

 Solution name                                Current state and plans for upgrade
 Harmony toolbox in C++, open source capable • Satisfies TRL3-4 for software.
 of time-domain simulation using dynamic • It has funding trough industrial
 phasors, AC/DC OPF and harmonic stability       HARMONY project (1 more year),
 assessment                              (see    and MITIGATE-HARM (3 years).
 https://cresym.github.io/Harmony-Doc/).
                                              Plans to upgrade:
                                              • Inclusion of GFM control to
                                                 HARMONY, and definition of stability
                                                 indices based on ENTSO-E and
                                                 AEMO recommendation.
                                              • Ongoing work on testing on real
                                                 Slovenian grid which will upgrade to
                                                 TRL5-6.
                                              • Formulation as Linux Foundation
                                                 ENERGY project.

                                                  Future needs and plans:
                                                  • TenneT industrial Ph.D. reseracher to
                                                     work on GFM control.
                                                  • Not identified future project to apply
                                                     impedance-based              stability
                                                     assessment in real-time.
 ACDC-OpFlow is created as AC/DC OPF • Satisfies TRL4-5 for software.
 toolbox in C++, Julia, Python, and MATLAB. It is
 an open-source toolbox available here: Plans to upgrade:
 https://github.com/CRESYM/ACDC_OPF.              • Addition of unit committment.
                                                  • Integration inside the hierarchical
                                                     controller for AC/DC grid control.

                                               Future needs and plans:
                                               • Toshiba        funding    for  unit
                                                  commitment inclusion.
                                               • Possible reaching out to power
                                                  system simulation companies to
                                                  offer integration.
 DQsym toolbox is created as an open source in • Satisfies TRL4-5 for software.
 MATLAB/Simulink, available here:
Confidential                                                                       13/3/2026


 https://github.com/control-protection-grids-      •   It has funding trough industrial
 tudelft/DP.                                           HARMONY project (2 more years).

                                                   Plans to upgrade:
                                                   • Transfer to Harmony toobox.
                                                   • Inclusion of stability assessment
                                                      interchangably   between    time
                                                      domain and harmonic simulation –
                                                      one of a kind.

                                                   Future needs and plans:
                                                   • TenneT industrial postdoc in
                                                      combination with MITIGATE-HARM.
                                                   • Possible reaching out to power
                                                      system simulation companies to
                                                      offer integration.
 HVDC models for RTDS with ratings 2 GW,           • One-of-a-kind library, used and
 ±525 kV, and adjusted CIGRE B4 ratings based         referenced by CIGRE B4 and EU
 on TenneT substation and cable design. It is         project PROSECCO.
 created for the old NovaCor 1.0.                  • Used in teaching, and for NN-library
 Available here: https://github.com/control-          creation.
 protection-grids-tudelft/HVDC-RTDS-models
                                               Plans to upgrade:
                                               • Transfer to NovaCor 2.0 as the part of
                                                  UTOPYS project.
 Neural network libraries for RTDS used for • One-of-a-kind libraries, advertized
 HVDC control, available as open source. It is    by RTDS worldwide.
 created for the old NovaCor 1.0 and:
 • Tested for adaptive PI MMC control: Plans to upgrade:
    https://github.com/control-protection-     • Transfer to NovaCor 2.0 as the part of
    grids-tudelft/RTDS_NN_models                  UTOPYS project.
 • Tested for adaptive deadbeat MPC control: • Additional MSc theses to design
    https://github.com/control-protection-        more neural network topologies.
    grids-tudelft/SUNRISE_MPC


Besides software purely solutions, there are works on the integration of hierarchical control,
protection and fault location concepts developed in projects SAFE-GRID (NWO VENI), EU
project PROSECCO and HARMONY. The list is found in the following table.
Confidential                                                                      13/3/2026


 Solution name                                  Current state and plans for upgrade
 Hierarchical control for the centralized       •   To be issued patent during summer
 and decentralized control written in C++           2026.
 and Julia with offline and real-time testing   •   To be deployed inside Aquila setup
 capabilities. It includes: AC/DC OPF (from         (UK’s InterOPERA) in the upcoming 2-3
 ACDC-OpFlow), and decentralized control            months as the vendor-agnostic solution
 design (PI, MPC with rodust and adaptive           for one MMC terminal. It will increase
 variants).                                         its TRL to 6.
 Easy deployable to any real-time target
 (FPGA, GTSOC 2.0, or microcontroller).         Plans to upgrade:
                                                • Addition of multiple control algorithms,
                                                   integration in PACS and DCGC.

                                                Future needs and plans:
                                                • GE is interested in the toolbox, and it
                                                   might result in industrial project.
 Hierarchical protection for the HVDC fault • To be issued patent by the end of 2026.
 detection, and location. Written in Julia and
 C++. Easy deployable to any real-time target Plans to upgrade:
 (FPGA, GTSOC 2.0, or microcontroller).        • Addition of multiple control algorithms,
                                                 integration in PACS and DCGC.

                                                Future needs and plans:
                                                • GE is interested in the toolbox, and it
                                                   might result in industrial project.


Hardware solutions
The hardware solutions at this stage represents three products: PACS, DCGC, and DCSS.

 Solution name                                  Current state and plans for the upgrade
 PACS (Protection and Control System) is        • To be released and tested by the end of
 designed as part of PROSECCO project. It          2026.
 includes hierarchical control and              • To examine future plans: patent, or a
 protection solutions integrated on the            start-up product.
 FPGA device.                                   • No additional funding required at this
                                                   stage.

                                                Future needs and plans:
                                                • Control and protection expandable
                                                   solution with adaptive C&P algorithms.
                                                   Work to be financed through EXPAND-
Confidential                                                                     13/3/2026


                                                  HVDC project (continuation of
                                                  InterOPERA), which I coordinate.




 DC Grid Controller (DCGC) will represent •       Work to be started in 2027.
 as digital substation that includes future- •    Funding through 2-3 years TenneT
 ready interoperability aspects [4]. It aims to   industrial postdoc (under negotiation).
 replace the control centre system and all its
 applications for SCADA, grid calculations
 (EMS), load frequency control (LFC),
 scheduling, etc., and provide those
 capabilities and functionalities in a modular
 way.
 It will be based on the SEAPATH open-
 source substation, and ACDC-OpFlow
 integrated.




 DC Switching Station (DCSS) represents a •       Work to be started in 2027.
 controller of the switchyard providing the •     Funding through EXPAND-HVDC
 communication between IEDs, and                  project which I coordinate.
 modular connection point for the additional •    It will be patented.
 and expandable HVDC grid.
Confidential                                                                       13/3/2026


Testing procedures and setups
Setups for PHIL using Imperix MMC and Imperix 2-level VSCs, which would ensure TRL6
testing for all different RES topologies. Namely, MMC is used for HVDC terminals, while 2-
level converter is used for PV, BESS, wind and hydrogen connections.

Currently one project (Inter-oPEn) develops PHIL setup for the GFM control of offshore wind
farms. One more project is ongoing, named GF4EU.

In the lab exist both MMC and 2-level VSC (borrowed from PVMD). In near future should be
invested in purchasing two 2-level VSC to enable GSC-MSC connection, and at least two
more power amplifiers as Triphase is outdated.




           IEPG
                               IEPG
           Asset
                               Asset
                                                                IEPG
                                                                Asset
Furthermore, the efforts will be invested to preserve InterOPERA equipment by frequent
interaction between actors in ENTSO-E interoperability workstream. New vendors will be
contacted, e.g. Toshiba.

In the upcoming project EXPAND-HVDC will be tested interoperability of protection
solutions and IEDs.

Courses and training programs
The Interoperability lab will have the training material in the format of MOOC, with addition
of libraries, and TU Delft-owned courses with PAO outreach:

   •   MOOC "Control and protection of HVDC/AC electrical grids" offered by IEEE IES and
       the GitHub library of models following the course:
       I am the responsible instructor for the MOOC and teach 1/3 of the course material.
       The MOOC is recorded in co-financing of the EU project SUNRISE and IEEE IES
Confidential                                                                       13/3/2026


       sponsorship based on the successful proposal. I have managed to engage 15
       lecturers in this course, both from academia and industry. The course is hosted as an
       open-source,                free,           IEEE             IES             webinar:
       https://resourcecenter.ies.ieee.org/education/short-courses-protection-basics.
       The course material is also supported with the open-source RSCAD/RTDS and
       MATLAB libraries and models, which can be found here: https://github.com/control-
       protection-grids-tudelft/Control-and-protection-of-HVDC-AC-electrical-grids-IEEE-
       IES-MOOC.
       This MOOC covers the teaching material currently unavailable or in the limited format
       available at universities worldwide. It also represents a relevant topic both for
       academia and industry. After finishing the course and passing the end quiz, attendees
       can claim 74 PDH (equivalent to 3 ECTS).
   •   Electrical Power Systems of the Future – EE4545, ECTS 5, MSc course – responsible
       instructor (2023/2024-ongoing).
       I have included teaching of the control of HVDC-based electrical grids in the course
       material. And formulated practical sessions as RTDS hardware-in-the-loop
       experiments. This is a completely novel approach for teaching, and having one of the
       largest RTDS laboratories in the world helps with sharing the knowledge about real-
       time simulations and testing feasible for our MSc studies.
       From this year, 2026, the course is being sold as PAO.
   •   IEPG summer school material will be offered from summer 2028.

   3. Lab future
The Interoperability lab will be funded through diverse projects: industrial grants, EU
projects, national funding and industrial actions. In the upcoming 5 years, the focus will be
given to the establishment of the stable product line, patenting, publication of results, and
ensuring further financing.

After 5 years, the lab should evolve towards one start-up by applying to EIC Accelerator EU
grant. Furthermore, with frequent collaboration with TenneT, it might be established TU
Delft-TenneT institute.

   4. Resources
Summary of existing and list of needed resources:
  • Lab space exists in the backyard, and it can be fully employed;
  • Power electronics hardware: Imperix MMC (exists), Imperix 2-level converter x 2;
  • Grid emulator: power amplifier x 2;
  • Measurement instruments: oscilloscope, signal generator;
  • Software licenses: PSCAD
Confidential                                                                13/3/2026


   •   Servers: 2 working stations (exist);
   •   Maintenance
   •   Consumables
   •   Connection to 5-10 RTDS racks in RTDS Lab (exists)

 Category                                   Investment needed
 Imperix 2-level converter x 2              200 k€
 Oscilloscope,       signal      generator, 50 k€
 measurement equipment
 Power amplifier x 2                         200 k€
 Software                                    10 k€ per year
 Maintenance/consumables                     2-3 k€ per year

The lab can start operation with the currently owned resources, and increase gradually
through project funding.




   5. Organization
The lab will be run by:
   • Lab director – Aleksandra Lekić;
   • Technical manager – Remko Koornneef;
   • Research engineers;
   • PhD students;
   • Admin support – IT and DCC.
Confidential                                                                       13/3/2026


Governance structure:
   • Reporting lines: the lab director is directly reporting to the ESP Lab manager and
      department head;
   • IP ownership policy: the results will be owned by TU Delft, with different access
      rights depending on each different product and solution;
   • Industry collaboration framework: goes through the lab director and technical
      manager directly with industry partners.

The lab will be available for use to all ESE department members after detailed planning and
consultation with the lab director and technical manager. All lab users will have to adhere to
guidelines for the lab access and equipment use. TU Delft owned equipment will be usable
to anyone using the lab. However, vendor equipment under NDA, will be usable only to the
individuals whose names are clearly specified on the NDA. Furthermore, at some points one
or more (of three) laboratory spaces might be out of use due to IP protection, and NDAs (e.g.
InterOPERA project).

   6. Risk assessment
               Risk                          Impact     Mitigation
               Funding delay                 Medium     Diversify grant sources
               Equipment underutilization    High       Industry partnerships
               Talent shortage               High       PhD pipeline
               Tech obsolescence             Medium     Modular infrastructure


References
[1] “Implementation Plan on HVDC & DC Technologies,” European Commission, SET Plan
Secretariat, October 2021.
[2] ENTSO-E, “Position on Offshore Development – Interoperability,” January 2021.
[3] ENTSO-E, “RDI Roadmap 2024 – 2034, Innovation Missions to build the power system
for a Carbon-Neutral Europe,” 2024.
[4] ENTSO-E, Interoperability,
https://www.entsoe.eu/technopedia/techsheets/interoperability/.
Confidential   13/3/2026


Annex 1
Vision in education,
leadership, research, and
valorisation




Name ACT candidate                   Aleksandra Lekić

Department                           ESE

Section                              IEPG

Name section leader and department
                                     Peter Palensky
chair

Date                                 30-01-2025
Following the conclusions of the Paris Climate Agreement1 formulated by the United Nations, the
reduction of the carbon footprint became a top priority in the EU and the Netherlands. To decrease
CO2 levels by 80-95% compared to 1990 levels, the EU plans to integrate 420 GW of wind-generated
energy by 2030 (up from nowadays 205 GW)2.
European Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity (ENTSO-E) is formulating
guidelines and recommendations for integrating onshore and offshore wind energy. In the near future,
multi-vendor installations will be part of the large gigawatt-scale wind farm tenders, including multi-
vendor converter stations3. Power electronic (PE) converters will be used to transmit the wind power
that will cover half of the European energy demands with the multi-terminal multi-vendor connection
(see Fig. 1).




                                 Fig. 1 – PE-based electrical grid in the North Sea.

The PE-based electrical grid will contain multi-terminal, multi-vendor connections that do not exist yet.
Therefore, technology and manufacturer interoperability study of control and protection are utmost
required for an uninterrupted electricity supply4. Namely, as it can be seen from Fig. 2 with the
existence of multiple vendors for the control and protection in the High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC)-
based electrical grid, multiple issues can arise that are still not sufficiently examined and standardized.

PE converters are responsible for converting the Alternate Current (AC) into Direct Current (DC), and
vice versa. Their important part is the control, which in HVDC grids is needed to maintain stable DC
voltage and continuous power supply to the onshore AC grid. PE converters’ control over disturbances,
that regularly occur in electrical grids, must be infallible to avoid unforeseen problems in the operation
of the whole electrical grid, which in the worst case, may cause blackouts5. In case of disturbances (like
line outage, fault current, or sudden overload), the control should be robust and reliable to stabilize
the electrical grid. Currently, the PE converter control response time is measured in milliseconds, and
is incapable of fact reaction against unforeseen system changes and grid disruptions.



1
  United Nations, “Paris Agreement,” 2016, available:
https://unfccc.int/files/essential_background/convention/application/pdf/english_paris_agreement.pdf.
2
  https://windeurope.org/intelligence-platform/product/getting-fit-for-55-and-set-for-2050/
3
  ENTSO-E, “Position on Offshore Development – Interoperability,” January 2021.
4
  North Sea Wind Power Hub (NSWPH) Programme, “Hubs and spokes – viable beyond theory,” 2022.
5
  Entire electrical grid turning off

                                                         2
         Fig. 2 – Interoperability issues that might arise in the multi-vendor multi-terminal HVDC electrical grid.

Control of PE-dominated electrical grids has been identified as one of the main problems on the
Intergovernmental panel on climate change6 (IPCC) where it states that the way forward will be
through the use of advanced control approaches:

“Electricity systems powered predominantly by renewables will be increasingly viable over the coming
decades, but it will be challenging to supply the entire energy system with renewable energy (high
confidence). Large shares of variable solar PV and wind power can be incorporated in electricity grids
through batteries, hydrogen, and other forms of storage; transmission; flexible non-renewable
generation; advanced controls; and greater demand-side responses.”

Furthermore, on the EU level, the European Strategic Energy Technology (SET) group for HVDC & DC
technologies has defined the goals7 for the PE-based HVDC operation as:
    • Short term (until 2027): interoperable multi-terminal multi-vendor HVDC connection in
        Europe;
    • Medium term (2027-2030): cost effective and scalable multi-terminal multi-vendor HVDC
        system, ready to be included into a stable and resilient AC grid;
    • Long term (2030-2050): HVDC grid covering both offshore and onshore applications.
This plan also identifies, besides control interoperability, stability management of PE-dominated
system together with the new modelling methods and tools to improve the overall system behaviour
and mitigate the interactions between AC and DC parts, as the imperative outcomes. The same
document defines the following as the top priority:

“Multi-Vendor Multi Terminal Voltage Source Converter (VSC) HVDC with complimentary future proof
AC/DC hybrid systems assessment and stability management approaches is a top priority to fulfil
climate neutral Europe needs with ambitious aims for offshore renewable energy.”




6
  “Climate Change 2022: Mitigation of Climate Change, Technical Summary,” Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC), 2022.
7
  “Implementation Plan on HVDC & DC Technologies,” European Commission, SET Plan Secretariat, October
2021.

                                                             3
In recent years, researchers have proposed various advanced modular multilevel converter (MMC –
type of VSC, PE converter) controllers to enhance the performance of classical MMC controls.
However, there is a lack of MMC control standardization, and the majority of HVDC projects are
constructed in a vendor-specific manner. Furthermore, projects Best Paths and PROMOTioN (in which
TU Delft has participated in) have given a good basis for the multi-vendor control and protection
studies, which are currently being extended by READY4DC (as a preparation stage for InterOPERA) and
InterOPERA (where TU Delft plays an important consortium member, and in which I participate)
projects.

From the previous summary, we can see that the power system sector is slow. In order to find the
application inside the power system in the following decades, the research has to take place now.
With my work on hardware-in-the-loop and advanced control principles, I will speed up this transition
and provide solutions to future instabilities. This solution can be later used by the transmission system
operators (TSOs) around the Europe and worldwide. Furthermore, my solutions will be scalable to the
distribution network applications with PE-based low-voltage and medium-voltage power systems.

Based on Fig. 2 and following EU plans for the HVDC & DC technology development, I can identify the
following paths in which my research can steer the ongoing HVDC grid development:
     1. Design of fast, robust, and adaptive interoperable control strategies using classical and
        advanced control approaches (nonlinear control strategies supported by machine learning -
        ML).
        These control strategies ensure system stability even in the case of major disturbances such as
        faults and restore the system to stable operation. Namely, my research contributes towards
        system black start and pre-fault, during-fault, and post-fault system restoration.
        In line with IPCC and EU plans, I am committed to use of the sophisticated mathematics, by
        connecting the traditional system theory (such as Lyapunov theory) with the latest
        commutation advancements (FPGA, CPU, etc.) and algorithms (ML, quantum computing), to
        improve the system stability and control.
     2. Design of detailed and computationally efficient mathematical models for the harmonic,
        electromagnetic transient (EMT), and real-time simulations (RTS).
        This research presents an important topic since the commercially available tools either cannot
        cope with the simulation of PE-based electrical grids, or the simulation of such grids can last
        hours or even days. To ensure the interoperability of the MTDC, extensive simulations are
        imperative.
        The ability to iteratively interconnect multiple vendor’s converters will lead to the drastically
        increase of the AC/DC power system complexity. Therefore, new efficient models are needed
        to enable these extensive hybrid power system simulations. These models furthermore improve
        system performance and mitigate adverse AC-DC interactions.
     3. EMT simulation and RTS hardware-in-the-loop (HIL) experiments following the successful
        design of the control strategies and mathematical models.
        EMT simulations and RTS HIL experiments are necessary for the full-scale implementation of
        the HVDC electrical grid and the only real-time testing that can enable the start of the first
        multi-terminal HVDC connection procurement.
        As committed to open-source practice, all of these models created as a part of my research
        will be published as open-source libraries.

                                                   4
My research goals
In the future, I see myself as a leading HVDC/AC control specialist in the Netherlands (and wider,
worldwide), who plays a crucial role in this energy transition. I will provide smart controlling solutions
for the PE-based electrical grid that will prevent blackouts and ensure fast grid disturbance recovery.
It will directly enable the design of the first multi-terminal multi-vendor PE-based electrical grid in
Europe.
In that manner, I have identified the key research goals, which are grouped into Controls, Modeling,
and Simulation, as depicted in Fig. 3. The goals are as follows:

1. CONTROL - Designing of the HVDC/AC
    controlling strategy that will suffice multi-
    vendor multi-terminal HVDC application.
The control strategies will be applied as
distributed for each PE-terminal and as
centralized for the entire HVDC/AC power
system.
I have already shown that advanced controls
can prevent blackouts, stabilize frequency,
and speed up system recovery after fault
occurrence. This unique approach where I
synthesized data-driven methods with                           Fig. 3 – My main research components.
analytical ones has so far led to ground-
breaking results that can be utilized shortly concerning its fast-growing need in the energy transition.

The control topics can be separated into decentralized and centralized actions.

     • Decentralized control approach
Since 2020, my team has developed Model Predictive Control, Sliding Mode Control, back-stepping
control approaches, and ML applications for the decentralized control of the power converters. These
approaches are compared and benchmarked for MTDC digital twins8 and used as teaching material in
the MOOC: Control and protection of HVDC/AC electrical grids9.
Two of my Ph.D. students have already graduated on this topic (one with “cum laude”). Furthermore,
I have received the Veni grant for the fundamental design of the ML-based adaptive MPC in hybrid
electrical grids.
The extension of this approach will provide a black start sequence and the control-protection
coordination strategy for the HVDC power system.
My team comprises 3 Ph.D. and 4 postdoctoral researchers continuing this research line. This research
line is covered in projects InterOPERA (1 Ph.D. and 3 postdocs), Inter-oPEn (1 Ph.D.), and PROSECCO (1
Ph.D. and 1 postdoc at the later project stage).



8
  https://github.com/control-protection-grids-tudelft/HVDC-RTDS-models
9
  https://github.com/control-protection-grids-tudelft/Control-and-protection-of-HVDC-AC-electrical-grids-IEEE-
IES-MOOC

                                                       5
    • Centralized coordination control actions for the hybrid power system
This research improves the application of the optimal power flow (OPF)-based control approaches to
communicate operating scenarios to the advanced controlled PE converters locally (in a decentralized
manner).
This research started in 2022. One CSC Ph.D. researcher and one postdoc (working on project
Harmony) represent the team working on the AC-DC optimization strategies. The Harmony project
partially covers it.

2. MODELING - Create models for the PE-based power system with different levels of abstraction
    depending on the application. This work will be based on RTS/EMT and harmonic simulation
    strategies.
In my current work, I have developed models for the PE-based power system using open-source
programming languages and RTDS10. The models can have different levels of abstraction and
simplifications.

In 2020 and 2021, my team designed software-in-the-loop and HIL bipolar MTDC digital twins with 2-
5 terminals (with state-of-the-art ratings ±525 kV, 2 GW) and installed DC circuit breakers. These
models cannot be found in any existing library of the models. These models are filling in the gap that
is not covered by recent CIGRE brochures11, and can be found in the repository: HVDC-based RTDS
models.
In 2022-2023, my team has built models that will be used for the InterOPERA project. Three postdocs
are hired to perform control and protection interoperability studies for the multi-vendor HVDC-based
power system for 52 months.
The work on the models continues with future projects, such as PROSECCO and Inter-oPEn. InterOPERA
also continues.
Since my team already has a solid library of basic models, the future work is directed at the “true”
hardware implementation (control-hardware-in-the-loop) on the specialized FPGAs. The models will
be upgraded to be implemented in the substation in real-time (in project PROSECCO).

In 2023 and 2024, my team has extensively worked on the model implementation using ML and neural
networks. The first neural network based controller for real-time simulation of HVDC connection has
been designed by my team, and it has been published as one IEEE paper, and as RTDS leaflet12 and
specialized open source repository13.

Regarding the open source harmonic models development – the project funded by the CRESYM
organization, titled Harmony, has started. This project covers 1 Ph.D. researcher and 2.5 FTE postdocs.
This project is designed under the CRESYM umbrella with financial support from TSO Swissgrid and
TenneT.

3. SIMULATION - Simulation (and experimental) work is required for all control and model
   verification studies. All simulation work will be provided as open-access:

10
   www.rtds.com
11
   CIGRE Technical Brochure, “B4.72 – DC grid benchmark models for system studies,” vol. 804, 2020.
12
   https://knowledge.rtds.com/hc/en-us/articles/26763169128983-Case-Study-Machine-Learning
13
   https://github.com/control-protection-grids-tudelft/RTDS_NN_models

                                                      6
    •   In the form of libraries (CRESYM, CIGRE) for real-time hardware- and software-in-the-loop
        simulations using state-of-the-art power systems simulating supercomputers named RTDS.
    •   In the form of open-source software (Python and Julia-based) for the transient and harmonic
        power system studies.

As a part of my short-term and long-term goals, I plan to become the leading name in the HVDC/AC
control and stability studies in the Netherlands and worldwide. I will continue working on HVDC/AC
modeling and control research topics, and I will continue leading the team of researchers. I plan to
increase the resources in the RTDS laboratory further and maintain the up-to-date model libraries for
EMT and harmonic stability studies. Furthermore, as a part of HARMONY project, I will continue
developing an open-source framework for the stability studies of PE-based power systems.

Projects
During the last 4 years, I have written and participated in 10 projects, out of which 7 are granted. The
granted projects are:

    •   [2023-2025] SUNRISE, Horizon Europe, Grant agreement ID: 101079200
        Role: lead from TU Delft, WP3 lead
        Budget: 1.4 M€ (352 k€ for TU Delft)
    •   [2023-2027] InterOPERA, Horizon Europe, Grant agreement ID: 101095874
        Role: co-lead from TU Delft
        Budget: 50.2 M€ (3.443 M€ for TU Delft)
    •   [2023-2026] Harmony, CRESYM project
        Role: PI
        Budget: 1.248 M€ (1.248 M€ for TU Delft)
    •   [2024-2027] SAFE-GRID, NWO, VENI-Talent scheme
        Role: PI, individual grant
        Budget: 280 k€ (280 k€ for TU Delft)
    •   [2024-2027] Inter-oPEn, Horizon Europe, Grant agreement ID: 101119349
        Role: lead from TU Delft and WP3 lead
        Budget: 2.673 M€ (274.4 k€ for TU Delft)
    •   [2024-2028] PROSECCO, Horizon Europe, Grant agreement ID: 101160687
        Role: lead from TU Delft and WP4 lead
        Budget: 5 M€ (629 k€ for TU Delft)

Finished projects:

    •   [2018–2021] EASY RES, H2020, Grant agreement ID: 764090 – finished project
        Role: Task 6.4 lead
        Budget: 4.5 M€ (456 k€ for TU Delft)
    •   [2023-2024] BiGER, CRESYM project – finished project
        Role: lead from TU Delft
        Budget: 345 k€ (148 k€ for TU Delft)

As visible, 2 of the granted projects are industrial, 1 is an individual grant, 1 is an MSCA project, and 3
are Horizon Europe projects. In the mentioned projects, I serve in different roles as the project lead


                                                    7
(SAFE-GRID, InterOPERA and Harmony), WP lead (Inter-oPEn, PROSECCO, SUNRISE), and task lead
(EASY RES, finished project). So far, I have gathered funding of 6.384 M€ for the research projects and
teaching support.

Besides project writing, I have gathered significant contacts with companies. I had MSc theses
collaborating with companies: 2 MSc theses with DNV, 2 MSc theses with Alewijnse, 1 MSc thesis
with TenneT, 2 theses with Stedin, and 1 thesis with Shell.

Research outreach
I have been serving as an associate editor for Elsevier’s International Journal of Electrical Power and
Energy Systems, Q1 journal, since 2023. I was also an associate editor for Springer’s Electrical
Engineering, Q3 journal, between 2023-2024; and an associate editor for IET Power Electronics in
2024.

Besides, I have also served as a guest associate editor for:

    •   Special issue, Elsevier, International Journal of Electrical Power and Energy Systems,
        “Methodologies and Applications of Digital Twin for Renewable-dominant Power Systems”.
    •   Special issue, Elsevier, Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, “100% inverter-based
        microgrids for enabling high penetration of renewable energy”.
    •   Special issue, IEEE, IEEE Journal of Photovoltaics, for the papers selected from PSVC 2023.
    •   Special issue, MDPI/Energies, “Power Converter Control Applications in Low-Inertia Power
        Systems”.

I am often serving as the conference chair, member of the technical committee, etc:

    •   IEEE ISGT 2024, HVDC session chair, and Best Paper Award jury member
    •   PowerWeb Annual Conference 2024, conference chair
    •   PSCC 2024, Session chair
    •   IEEE PVSC 2024, Program committee member – area 9 co-chair
    •   PowerTech 2023, Session chair
    •   IEEE PVSC 2023, Program committee member – area 9 chair
    •   IEEE FES, and SEST 2023, Technical program committee member
    •   IEEE IECON 2022, IEEE PVSC 2022, and ICoPESA 2022, Session chair
    •   IEEE SEST 2022, Technical committee member
    •   IEEE ISCAS 2020, IEEE ISIE 2020, Session chair

Future plans
All projects cover my research line, and through the work on them, together with my team, I am
improving the research on modeling and control of electrical grids. The research results are
communicated to the academic, industrial, and governmental bodies through publications, magazines,
project deliverables, open-source repositories, and lectures.

To increase my research outreach, I will continue participating in IEEE and CIGRE working groups and
participating in EU projects. I will also focus on writing individual grants, such as VIDI/VICI, NWO OTP,
and ERC grants.



                                                    8
My goals for the future are as follows:

    •   Continue the work of MTDC control and modelling and establish myself as a leader in this
        research area.
    •   Continue to increase RTDS laboratory equipment: increase the number of RTDS racks and
        vendor C&P units, and improve HIL potential.
        As a part of my work on InterOPERA, the RTDS equipment has been increased by 20 GTPGAs,
        1 NovaCor rack, and 1 renewed RTDS rack. This equipment costs 1.2 M€.
        Furthermore, as a part of project PROSECCO, I have purchased the ultra-fast FPGA and GTSOC
        2.0 unit.
    •   Further increase academic and industrial networks by participation in EU projects,
        conferences, and IEEE/CIGRE working groups.
    •   Obtain the ERC starting grant on the topic of the application of quantum computing in the
        design of the MTDC control.




                                                9
Valorization
My industrial and academic interactions were directed by my research goals and Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) imposed by UN. Namely, I have aimed to strengthen collaboration with all
industrial stakeholders including distribution, transmission companies and different equipment
manufacturers (vendors) which are known to play a role in the ongoing energy transition and
development of renewable energy sources. As a result, I have a strong collaboration with different
TSOs: TenneT, as the main collaborator, and then RTE, 50Hz, Energinet, Amprion, among others. With
the growing necessity for TSO-DSO coordination, I have established contacts with Stedin and Alliander.
And of course, with different PE converters manufacturers: Siemens Energy, Hitachi Energy, General
Electric; Wind power park manufacturers: Vestas, Siemens Gamesa; DC circuit breaker manufacturers:
SciBreak, etc. I already have a strong collaboration with the industry in the Netherlands, the EU, and
the world.

I also established good contact with three manufacturers of real-time simulation platforms: RTDS,
OPAL-RT and Typhoon HIL. RTDS is the most important for my work, since their real-time simulator
represents by far the best tool for the EMT simulation and HIL testing of power systems, and ESP Lab
possess one of the biggest RTDS clusters worldwide. One of the biggest valorization achievements is
the publication of the open-source repositories created by my group in form of RTDS leaflet14
communicated by them worldwide to their customers: 100+ utilities, 100+ manufacturers, 260+
universities, and during each their attendance to meetings and conferences. This work has been
published in 2024, but it already gathered wide attention and increased my list of contacts.

My academic connections are also strong, with universities such as KU Leuven, University of Lille, TU
Braunschweig, University of Manchester, RWTH, KTH, and others; and institutes like SuperGrid
Institute, Nikola Tesla institute, etc. I plan also to further increase academic contacts around the
globe. This can be achieved by participating in IEEE and CIGRE working groups. I am already a member
of IEEE, and four IEEE communities (PES, IES, CASS, WIE). I am also increasing my industrial and
academic contacts through CIGRE (global community committed to the collaborative development and
sharing of power system expertise), where I am a member of the Dutch B4 working group, and joint
working groups C2/B4.43 on “The impact of offshore wind power hybrid AC/DC connections on system
operations and system design” and B4/C4.97 on “Benchmarking of Simulation Models for control
interaction in meshed AC networks with multiple converters”.

Furthermore, I am a member of Sustainable Energy Technology (SET) Plan for HVDC grids committee
for European Commission. I am also participating in the CRESYM organization as a General Assembly
member for open-source collaborative research on power system modeling.

As mentioned previously, I have so far represented TU Delft in writing 10 project proposals, out of
which 7 were granted with the total funding of 6.384 M€. All these projects are supported by different
businesses (mainly TSOs and vendors), academic institutions, and institutes, as well as organizations
(such as CRESYM). Furthermore, I have worked and will continue working on outreach activities:

       •   My work has always been directed toward open-access practice. I have developed different
           open-source frameworks and will continue doing so.



14
     https://knowledge.rtds.com/hc/en-us/articles/26763169128983-Case-Study-Machine-Learning

                                                    10
•   I lead IEEE IES MOOC “Control and protection of the HVDC/AC electrical grids” useful for
    academia and industry worldwide.
•   I participated in the EdX MOOC with the lecture “Role of multi-terminal HVDC” in 2021.
•   As a Veni laureate, I am also promoting the research output.
•   I actively communicate the research output through CIGRE, CRESYM, and IEEE.




                                           11
Teaching
I strongly believe that the university is the first step towards forming a complete person, an “academic
citizen”. Education should be structured in such a way as to teach people to be respectful towards
others and towards nature, and to cherish and preserve them.

Taking into account TU Delft strategic agenda for 2024-203015, I am always aligning my personal
teaching preferences and style to the values TU Delft promotes, i.e. solving complex and urgent societal
challenges through the education of highly qualified engineers who are creative, innovative and
responsible. I am doing that by promoting and upgrading the curriculum and administration inside ESE
department and IEPG section.

Since I started my academic work 12 years ago, I have always streamed towards making nicely
structured lectures with all available teaching materials. I have also tried to stimulate student
participation inside the classroom, which I modernized a lot since joining TU Delft by applying principles
taught at UTQ Teach such as flipped classroom, etc.

Furthermore, I have never shied away from taking a bigger leadership role in administration, which
can be seen from my work as a MSc coordinator.

Role in ESE department
In the department, I was the MSc coordinator for the track MSc EE-EPE. I had this role for two years
between 2021 and 2023.

As an MSc coordinator, I have made a summary of the admission trends for MSc EE-EPE. It is visible
that the number of applicants decreases yearly. I have formulated a couple of points where my work
can improve admission:

     •   Improved text on the site and in the brochure for MSc EE-EPE.
     •   Improved presentations for Master Week and Master Your Start.
     •   Searched for internship opportunities for MSc EE-EPE students.
     •   Communicated ideas to MSc director of studies and ESE MT boards about possibilities to ask
         crucial Dutch companies to fund at least one MSc EE-EPE scholarship yearly.
     •   Published all MSc topics and MSc internship texts timely.
     •   Started the work on the ongoing accreditation for MSc EE program that is being finished by
         new MSc coordinator currently.

My role in the IEPG team
As a member of the Intelligent Electrical Power Grids (IEPG) section, ESE department, I base my
teaching material on environmental goals related to clean energy. I believe that lecturers have the best
teaching performance when they teach topics related to their research interests. I am following this
approach and I am teaching material related to control, stability, and modeling of the power systems
of the future together with the fundamental teaching material for electrical engineering.

Currently, I am teaching three courses:



15
  https://filelist.tudelft.nl/TUDelft/Over_TU_Delft/Strategie/Institutional%20plan%20TU%20Delft%20-%20EN-
DEF-online.pdf

                                                    12
     •   Matlab Fundamentals for Electrical Engineers - SET3815-M, ECTS 2, MSc course – responsible
         instructor (2021/2022-ongoing).
         I am the instructor responsible for this course. I organize all teaching material and teach it. I
         also create assessments (summative and formative) and grade summative assessments.

         I am consistently improving the course structure. I have introduced new lectures and
         significantly restructured the course, including in the last school year, 2023/2024.

         Grades were always good:
            • 3.9/5.0 in 2021/2022,
            • 3.2/5.0 in 2022/2023,
            • 3.7/5.0 in 2023/2024,
            • 4.0/5.0 in 2024/2025.

     •   Electrical Power Systems of the Future – EE4545, ECTS 5, MSc course – one lecture
         (2020/2021), and responsible instructor (2023/2024-ongoing).
         In this course, in 2020/2021, I participated in one theoretical and one practical lecture, lecture
         6, related to the HVDC power grids.

         From this school year, I am participating in the course as a responsible instructor. I have
         included teaching of the control of HVDC-based electrical grids in the course material. And
         formulated practical sessions as RTDS hardware-in-the-loop experiments.
         This is a completely novel approach for teaching, and having one of the largest RTDS
         laboratories in the world helps with sharing the knowledge about real-time simulations and
         testing feasible for our MSc studies.

     •   IEEE IES MOOC “Control and Protection of the HVDC/AC electrical grids,” 3 ECTS, responsible
         instructor
         I am the responsible instructor for the MOOC and teach 1/3 of the course material. The MOOC
         is recorded in co-financing of the EU project SUNRISE and IEEE IES sponsorship based on the
         successful proposal. I have managed to engage 15 lecturers in this course, both from academia
         and industry. The course is hosted as an open-source, free, IEEE IES webinar16.
         The course material is also supported with the open-source RSCAD/RTDS and MATLAB libraries
         and models, which can be found here17.
         This MOOC covers the teaching material currently unavailable or in the limited format
         available at universities worldwide. It also represents a relevant topic both for academia and
         industry. After finishing the course and passing the end quiz, attendees can claim 74 PDH
         (equivalent to 3 ECTS)18.



16
   https://resourcecenter.ies.ieee.org/education/short-courses-protection-basics
17
   https://github.com/control-protection-grids-tudelft/Control-and-protection-of-HVDC-AC-electrical-grids-
IEEE-IES-MOOC
18
   https://iten.ieee-ies.org/featured-news/2025/ieee-ies-mooc-control-and-protection-of-hvdc-ac-electrical-
grids/?mkt_tok=NzU2LUdQSC04OTkAAAGYS6XpKhQbmHepq9Vx0wTC67OzVWvnv-
pseyPKQVDxXw6iEi9dw2xXzJLYEHrFiIe5i6gaVS4SxD6olJI_ach6_Hi-fSeUBY_TudS_k-5oe1hKcnDe

                                                     13
Previously, I was also teaching:

    •   Linear Circuits A (EE1C11) and B (EE1C21), each ECTS 5, BSc courses – Brightspace managing
        and practical instructions (2021/2022).
        In these two courses, I had the role of an instructor. As the instructor, I was giving practical
        instructions. Also, I was maintaining material on Brightspace and participating in the
        formulations of the final exams.
    •   EPO-1 – tutor for the laboratory sessions (2022/2023).
    •   I have contributed to EdX MOOC designed by IEPG with the lecture “Role of multi-terminal
        HVDC” in 2021.

I am contributing to energy digitalization by developing digital twins for real-time EMT simulation using
RSCAD/RTDS and I have promoted learning of real-time simulation using RTDS in the following ways:

    •   Prepared documentation and open source libraries with the digital twins using EMT real-time
        simulation software for internal use of the ESE department.
    •   Prepared documentation and digital twin libraries for the wider audience as a form of CRESYM,
        and perhaps CIGRE, library.



I have passed UTQ, English exam, PDP, Leading a project and team, and Leadership Programme
Assistant Professor courses.




                                                   14
Organization and leadership


Organization
Role in ESE department
In the department, I lead the group Control of HVDC/AC electrical grids. My work complements and
improves the work of the following colleagues:

    •   Prof. Marjan Popov, power system protection specialist;
    •   Dr. Mohamad Ghaffarian Niasar, high voltage technology specialist;
    •   Dr. Jose Luis Rueda Torres, power system stability specialist;
    •   Dr. Jianning Dong, electrical machines specialist;
    •   Dr. Pedro Vergara Barrios, active distribution networks and power flow specialist;

… whose work would be incomplete without the control of the PE-based electrical grids. Namely,
control and protection represent strongly linked algorithms that will be designed together in the future
electrical grids since the control can “save” the time for the reaction of the protection algorithm, even
up to 2 ms. In case of a fault in the HVDC connection, protection should react in less than 3 ms to clear
the fault and restore the system to the proper operating state. Furthermore, the power system cannot
be stable if the designed control is not stable and robust, and the control directly influences the
system's stability. Active distribution networks also have PE converters for low and medium voltage,
which are based on the same controlling principles as the HVDC grids. Finally, the proper control can
drastically reduce the voltage and current oscillation and overshoots and, consequently, extend the
lifetime of high-voltage cables and components. And finally, electrical machines cannot operate
without properly designed controllers.

I am closely collaborating with the HVT and DCE&S groups in our department. With Aditya Shekhar
from DCE&S, I am supervising one postdoc researcher. Colleagues Aditya Shekhar and Mohamad
Ghaffarian Niasar have participated in lectures in the MOOC “Control and protection of the HVDC/AC
electrical grids.” Furthermore, with Hani Vahedi from DCE&S group I co-supervise one Ph.D. researcher
as a part of MSCA project Inter-oPEn.

I plan to increase collaborations inside the faculty and university. With Prof. Sergio Grammatico from
3mE, I have submitted the project proposal to TenneT titled “Robust Control for High Voltage Direct
Current Grids”.

In my further work, I would need the help of the department to ensure:

    •   Better inclusion of women in the research team, and bigger promotion of women in science.
    •   Increased support and more guidelines for section/department/faculty procedures and
        guidelines, especially for the newly employed staff members.
    •   Constant information about funding possibilities (some calls pass unnoticed).
    •   That we continue tracking internal information on partners, observe the news, and rumors,
        and systematically gather that information so that we can distribute strategically the funding
        opportunities.




                                                   15
My role in the IEPG team
Within the IEPG section, ESE department, I take an active role in research and teaching advanced
control methods for hybrid power systems. I am contributing to energy digitalization by developing
digital twins for real-time EMT simulation using RSCAD/RTDS.

I am very active in supervision at the MSc, Ph.D., and postdoctoral levels. So far, I have supervised:

     •   15 MSc students, of which 13 successfully defended the thesis and 2 ongoing. It is worth noting
         that 7 MSc theses received a grade higher than 9, and 6 MSc students received “cum laude”
         as a result. One of the MSc students is also graded with a mark of 10.
     •   7 Ph.D. researchers, of which two graduated (one graduated “cum laude”) and 5 ongoing.
     •   11 postdoctoral researchers, of which 6 finished and 5 ongoing.

My team members are working towards strengthening the research on simulation, modeling, and
control of the hybrid (HVDC/AC) electrical grids. I supervise the content of their research and the
administrative processes behind them.

I have enriched my teaching portfolio, as already mentioned in Teaching section, with:

     •   The IEEE IES MOOC related to real-time simulation possibilities using RTDS, and control
         strategies for HVDC/AC. This course is funded by the Horizon Europe project SUNRISE, and the
         IEEE IES community. I have managed to engage 15 lecturers in this course, both from academia
         and industry. The course is hosted as an open-source, free, IEEE IES webinar.
         The course material is also supported with the open-source RSCAD/RTDS and MATLAB libraries
         and models, which can be found here19.
     •   The documentation with the digital twins using EMT real-time simulation software for open-
         source use as a form of CRESYM, and perhaps CIGRE, library.
     •   I have included teaching of the control of HVDC-based electrical grids in the course material of
         Electrical Power Systems of the Future, EE4545. Furthermore, I have formulated practical
         sessions as RTDS hardware-in-the-loop experiments.

Faculty and university level
Furthermore, I represent faculty/department/section in projects and I am a work package lead (and
TU Delft lead) in the awarded projects:

     •   HORIZON Europe twinning project - SUNRISE: WP3 lead;
     •   MSCA Inter-oPEn project: WP3 lead;
     •   HORIZON Europe PROSECCO project: WP4 lead.

I was a task 6.4 lead in the EASY-RES project, which was successfully finished.

I also represent the faculty by serving as a jury for NWO calls – e.g., I was a jury member for NWO OTP
call in 2024. I am also a principal investigator of the industrial CRESYM project HARMONY, EU project
InterOPERA, and of the individual NWO VENI project SAFE-GRID. And I was a PI for the successfully
finished industrial project BiGER.


19
  https://github.com/control-protection-grids-tudelft/Control-and-protection-of-HVDC-AC-electrical-grids-
IEEE-IES-MOOC

                                                     16
I carefully plan work, budget, and personnel in all projects to increase the section’s and department's
knowledge base, software/hardware products, and buying or modernization of the laboratory
equipment.


Leadership
Leading yourself and personal development
I have filled in the survey for leading yourself, and my personal leadership style is depicted in Fig. 4. I
highly value trust and integrity, and I am aware of my position inside the section, department, faculty,
and university. I am also aware of the existing research and organizational gaps, and I have a vision for
all of them.

Since joining TU Delft, I have grown immensely in various aspects. At the start of my work, I was
unaware of organizational matters, teaching procedures, research organization, etc. Nowadays, I can
confidently say that I have mastered these topics and formulated my own path, which I would like to
take in the years to come.

I have also survived challenging personal and work-related periods - all evidences that I am a strong
individual, capable of overcoming and thriving during bad and even worse times. My research and
valorization results are better year by year, and I have a stable teaching line. I have a team of which I
am very proud of, and I am constantly improving myself personally.

My weakest point is “saying NO” to requests, as I often tend to accept requests that are forwarded to
me. The reason for that is cultural, due to, sometimes, an inability to refuse the task and the fear that
I might “hurt” my supervisor or colleague. That obviously leads me to be overloaded with work, which
will not directly lead toward my visioned goals. This is the point at which I will continue working, and I
have already worked a lot as a part of the Personal Development Programme and Leadership for
Assistant and Associate Professor courses. I can say that I am daily becoming more confident with my
boundaries.

As depicted in Fig 4., and in link with “saying NO,” my result on initiative and courage is lower than the
rest. Similarly, as for refusing work, I sometimes lack the courage to advertise my work out of fear of
sounding “pushy,” “arrogant,” and “not respecting my more experienced colleagues”. In the future, I
plan to continue working on self-promotion by posting more announcements about my work to my
colleagues, contacts, and peers on LinkedIn and other relevant channels.

My main qualities are critical thinking, analyzing complex information, selecting goals, making deep
commitments, motivating myself and others, being enthusiastic about my work, and being efficient. I
still need to work on negotiation and communicating expectations, but I am becoming better day-by-
day. As already pointed out, by properly saying NO when needed and using good negotiation
techniques, I have significantly improved my fulfilment with working conditions.

To summarize: I have learned a lot in the last 5 year working at IEPG. First of all, I now value myself in
the same amount I value others and always take my plans, vision, and feelings while deciding on work
matters. I learned to never suppress myself in favour of others, and I communicate it clearly.
Furthermore, I always keep my boundaries for working hours, social safety, and work results. I ask
others to respect them the same way I respect the results of my colleagues. I have learned that, with

                                                    17
clear agreements, every collaboration turns to success. Furthermore, I am already thinking very
critically about myself and reflecting on myself; I will continue doing that to enable my constant
personal improvement.




                                     Fig. 4 – Leading yourself overview.

Leading others
My strong point is maintaining a good working atmosphere. I tend to create a friendly environment in
which my team can properly function, but I also maintain professionalism. I am willing to learn new
topics, and I appreciate students’ opinions on research. During meetings, I always make notes, and I
can track agreements, goals, and students’ progress. I am paying special attention to the inclusion of
the student in the group and the department while keeping in mind the student’s culture (e.g., the
cultural background can direct the safe environment for dealing with difficult supervision situations).

In my role in personal leadership and in leading a team, I will offer improvements for my role in 6
leadership components:

    1. Ownership and collaboration
       I understand the pillars of the IEPG group and devote my research and that of my team to
       fulfilling section and department goals. We help our society through education and research
       should lead to providing clean and cheap electricity for everyone. The work that I and my team
       produces is clearly communicated to section colleagues, and externally, with numerous
       publications. Each Ph.D. student must maintain a record of his/her data and, at the end of each
       year, prepare and archive the published research material together with all data.
       I define the data management strategy for each Ph.D. and Postdoc student and define which
       data should be gathered and stored yearly. To maintain a record of the data, my research




                                                    18
         group is creating open-source course material and simulation repositories, such as: HVDC-
         based RTDS models20 and Control and protection of HVDC/AC electrical grids21.

         There is room for improving collaboration with other sections of the department (exchange of
         thoughts, ongoing projects that will possibly lead to joint publications and even joint projects).
         Currently, I share one project with a colleague from DCE&S Aditya Shekhar. With Mohamad
         Ghaffarian Niasar from HVT, and Hani Vahedi from DCE&S I am currently writing NWO OTP
         proposal on the HVDC DC/DC converters, their operation and application.

     2. Vision and strategy
        I have a strong vision related to my research goals and strategy, and how to achieve them. I
        have grouped them into short- and long-term goals. I plan to become a leading academic
        person in HVDC in the Netherlands. With my ideas and perseverance, I will contribute to
        resolving yet, unimplemented new methodologies in practice.

         While planning my work and the work of my research team, I am always thinking about how it
         can strengthen the department’s research and the department's resources, software,
         hardware, and, of course, human.

         Inside my research group, I am paying a lot of attention to the short and long-term goals of the
         researchers working with me (Ph.D. and postdoc). I am trying to fit into the work tasks that
         will help them build up a portfolio and apply for the desired positions. One example of this is
         the situation of my current postdoc, who wanted to apply for an assistant professor position in
         the future, with whom I made a plan to involve him in the supervision of the Ph.D. student, and
         also involved him in the content creation for the MOOC “Control and protection of the HVDC/AC
         electrical grids”. This helped him to enrich his portfolio and he recently received the job
         proposal to join University of Aberdeen as a Lecturer, which he accepted and will join them at
         the beginning of 2025.

     3. Self-awareness and situational awareness
        Daily, I am improving my knowledge about rules and procedures, department goals, etc. I am
        leading a group of Ph.D. and postdoc researchers and constantly reflecting on our work and
        collaboration. I am trying to maintain high satisfaction with the working environment while
        maintaining a good working ethic. To the best of my knowledge, my group thrives when
        everybody has sufficient autonomy and responsibility for the work.

     4. Trust and integrity
        I aim to manage better relationships with my colleagues, managers, and support staff, and
        collaborators within TU Delft. My goal is to be a reliable and accountable colleague to support
        the trust-building and integrity of me and my team.




20
  https://github.com/control-protection-grids-tudelft/HVDC-RTDS-models
21
  https://github.com/control-protection-grids-tudelft/Control-and-protection-of-HVDC-AC-electrical-grids-IEEE-
IES-MOOC

                                                      19
        Trust and integrity play an important role in my team. As mentioned earlier, I aim to create a
        safe and supportive environment for my research team. That said, I am allowing the team
        members to evolve inside the research topic while fulfilling the core of the project
        requirements. With sufficient freedom, researchers feel trusted and take responsibility for the
        given tasks.

        Researchers are encouraged to question tasks and adjust them in content in the case when
        they can be validly explained. Researchers within my team feel free to accept and refuse the
        tasks based on their availability, task importance, etc.

        Within my team, we aim for the full transparency of the work, data, and models (unless there
        is secrecy inside the project, ensured through the signed NDA), while we also maintain the IP
        of the person who created them. The collaboration among group members is strongly
        supported and nurtured. We always strive to increase collaborations within TU Delft,
        Netherlands, and the wider world.

        So far, I cooperate with the aforementioned colleagues, even from different sections, and in
        this way, we increase our trust and cooperation which will lead to future joint projects.

    5. Attracting and encouraging talent
       In the last few years, I have significantly improved the representation of my research topics,
       and I am constantly attracting sufficient MSc students. I am constantly observing for talent
       within TU Delft and outside and trying to keep/bring talent.

        In my team, after the initial learning process and mastering the topic, I tend to let Ph.D.
        students and postdocs develop in their own directions and let them plan their work
        themselves. I encourage them to give presentations, lectures, and speeches and become
        visible within and outside of the organization. Furthermore, as mentioned above, I am
        encouraging them to carefully plan their goals and how our collaboration can help them
        achieve them.

    6. Initiative and courage

        I am constantly working towards increasing the international visibility. I am doing that through
        being an associate editor, and guest associate editor. Furthermore, through invited conference
        speeches and participation in the project consortia.

        I am constantly increasing awareness about my research topic through the lectures, and course
        material, but also through the publications, projects, and communication of the group
        achievements.

I am always responsive and supportive toward the MSc students. And jointly with them, I am solving
the issues that occur.

For leading others, I have filled in the survey provided by TU Delft and asked for the review by my team
members. The results, depicted in Fig. 5, show that my leadership style has been sorted as leverage or
more “hands-on approach.” The comments received together with the survey mean a lot to me, since
they show that my team members feel supported in terms of work and meetings whenever they have
a need for it. They understand the expectations and the direction of the work of the team, and most

                                                  20
importantly, they feel that everybody’s work is strongly valued and recognized. I will select the most
important comment: “She is always very aware of the recognition you should be getting out of the
work, and she keeps on reminding it. Which is good to learn.”

I plan to keep leading a transparent and strong team and fostering trust and collaboration between
team members and colleagues from the university and worldwide. I will also keep building the work of
the team while paying attention to the individual goals of each team member, and I will always try to
help them achieve it.




                                  Fig. 5 – Leading others personal overview.

Visibility outside university
Nationally and internationally, I maintain contacts within academia and industry. My main goal as the
HVDC/AC control specialist is carefully fulfilled by participating in conferences (as an author, chair,
program committee member, etc.), and by participating in project consortia. I am constantly striving
to widen my collaboration.

I promote TU Delft by giving invited talks and leading/co-leading projects with academia and industry.
In the future, I will continue doing that by increasing my role in the IEEE and CIGRE societies.




                                                     21
