Confidential                                                                        3/4/2026




                     INTEROPERABILITY PROGRAM
                                     Business case


                                    By Aleksandra Lekić



   1. Program organizational and industrial alignment
On the EU level, the European Strategic Energy Technology (SET) group for HVDC & DC
technologies [1] has defined the goals for the PE-based HVDC operation as:

   •   Short term (until 2027): interoperable multi-terminal multi-vendor HVDC connection
       in Europe;
   •   Medium term (2027-2030): cost effective and scalable multi-terminal multi-vendor
       HVDC system, ready to be included into a stable and resilient AC grid;
   •   Long term (2030-2050): HVDC grid covering both offshore and onshore applications.

SET plan also identifies, besides control interoperability, stability management of PE-
dominated system together with the new modelling methods and tools to improve the overall
system behaviour and mitigate the interactions between AC and DC parts, as the imperative
outcomes. The same document defines the following as the top priority:

“Multi-Vendor Multi Terminal Voltage Source Converter (VSC) HVDC with complimentary
future proof AC/DC hybrid systems assessment and stability management approaches is a
top priority to fulfil climate neutral Europe needs with ambitious aims for offshore renewable
energy.”

The scale of planned offshore energy hubs is significant, as can be seen from Fig. 1, designed
by ENTSO-E as a part of offshore development plans. To support such developments, the
integrated energy system must be adaptable in terms of operation, design, and expansion,
and must also support predictive maintenance. This project emphasizes the role of
integrated and multi-vector energy systems as key enablers of resilient and flexible HVDC-
based energy hubs. It explicitly considers the entire energy hub, including modular multilevel
converter (MMC) terminals and renewable energy sources such as hydrogen systems. Wind
power park modeling and control will build on validated results from previous projects.
Confidential                                                                                      3/4/2026




      Fig. 1 – Plans for offshore developments in Europe, identified by ENTSO-E, picture taken from 1.

Following the path proposed in my vision document, provided as the Annex 1, and following
the ENTSO-E Interoperability Workstream [2], and, thus, the ENTSO-E Innovation Roadmap
[3], I am proposing the establishment of the Interoperability Program as the part of IEPG/ESE.

The program will directly addresses key challenges outlined in Cluster 1 of the ENTSO-E
roadmap, specifically focusing on three areas: HVDC interconnections, offshore AC and DC
grids, and power system resilience. It also contributes to Cluster 2 topics: digital twins, and
AI-based technologies, as well as Cluster 3 topics such as hydrogen, RES/VRE integration
and integrated energy systems, as identified in the ENTSO-E roadmap for the upcoming 10
years [3]. The ENTSO-E Interoperability Workstream expects billions of euros of investments.




             Fig. 2 – C&P in the multi-vendor multi-terminal HVDC electrical grid.




1 ENTSO-E, Offshore Network Development Plans, available at: https://www.entsoe.eu/outlooks/offshore-

hub/tyndp-ondp/
Confidential                                                                         3/4/2026


The concept of control & protection (C&P) within an energy hub is inherently very complex
due to the fast dynamics introduced by power electronic (PE) converters. These converters
operate on timescales ranging from micro- to milli-seconds, significantly faster than
traditional power systems, which typically operate over seconds to minutes. As a result,
effective control of PE converters requires reaction times within microseconds. In the case
of a fault, protection systems should be capable of detecting, isolating and clearing the fault
within just 2-3 milliseconds. This stems from the rapid rise of the DC current during faults,
which can lead to system malfunction and, in extreme cases, even blackouts. Therefore,
ultra-fast and reliable control and protection systems are essential for the safe and stable
operation of PE-dominated power systems like energy hubs.
C&P for HVDC-connected offshore energy hubs are characterized by PE converter control,
and a protection algorithm at the DC connection of the PE converter, which identifies,
isolates and interrupts the faulty connection. These systems require near-instantaneous
and continuous operation. C&P must be carefully designed to be interoperable, scalable and
adaptable. The interoperability depends on various concepts, as depicted in Fig. 2.
Additionally, the power system must be capable of adapting to operate under varying
conditions, supporting future expansion, and enabling effective maintenance.



The Interoperability program itself would build upon a range of already made interoperability
products, services, and results analyzed in detail in section 2, using the already existing
infrastructure (section 4), and with the idea to be converted into IEPG-owned start-up in the
upcoming 5-10 years.

This program will be uniquely positioned as an interface for collaboration with TSOs and
vendors. Currently it is one of two inside EU used for interoperability studies: one at RTE and
one at TU Delft (three if The National HVDC Centre lab is considered, and five if Etch in
Belgium, and DTU lab in Denmark get established).

   2. Program portfolio
The portfolio of products follows the vision from the Annex 1, and it can be grouped in the
modeling, simulation and control categories. And as a type, classified as software, and
hardware solutions, and testing procedures and setups.

For each product will be given maturity level corresponding to its software/hardware TRL,
and possible path towards the TRL increase, or for the further increase of the applicability of
the solution.
Confidential                                                                      3/4/2026


Software solutions
Software solutions can be grouped as: open-source tools, hierachical control and protection
toolboxes, RSCAD/RTDS libraries, compliance toolboxes, and offline simulation models.

 Solution name                                Current state and plans for upgrade
 Harmony toolbox in C++, open source capable • Satisfies TRL3-4 for software.
 of time-domain simulation using dynamic • It has funding trough industrial
 phasors, AC/DC OPF and harmonic stability       HARMONY project (1 more year),
 assessment                              (see    and MITIGATE-HARM (3 years).
 https://cresym.github.io/Harmony-Doc/).
                                              Plans to upgrade:
                                              • Inclusion of GFM control to
                                                 HARMONY, and definition of stability
                                                 indices based on ENTSO-E and
                                                 AEMO recommendation.
                                              • Ongoing work on testing on real
                                                 Slovenian grid which will upgrade to
                                                 TRL5-6.
                                              • Formulation as Linux Foundation
                                                 ENERGY project.

                                                  Future needs and plans:
                                                  • TenneT industrial Ph.D. reseracher to
                                                     work on GFM control.
                                                  • Not identified future project to apply
                                                     impedance-based              stability
                                                     assessment in real-time.
 ACDC-OpFlow is created as AC/DC OPF • Satisfies TRL4-5 for software.
 toolbox in C++, Julia, Python, and MATLAB. It is
 an open-source toolbox available here: Plans to upgrade:
 https://github.com/CRESYM/ACDC_OPF.              • Addition of unit committment.
                                                  • Integration inside the hierarchical
                                                     controller for AC/DC grid control.

                                               Future needs and plans:
                                               • Toshiba        funding    for  unit
                                                  commitment inclusion.
                                               • Possible reaching out to power
                                                  system simulation companies to
                                                  offer integration.
 DQsym toolbox is created as an open source in • Satisfies TRL4-5 for software.
 MATLAB/Simulink, available here:              • It has funding trough industrial
                                                  HARMONY project (2 more years).
Confidential                                                                        3/4/2026


 https://github.com/control-protection-grids-
 tudelft/DP.                                       Plans to upgrade:
                                                   • Transfer to Harmony toobox.
                                                   • Inclusion of stability assessment
                                                      interchangably   between    time
                                                      domain and harmonic simulation –
                                                      one of a kind.

                                                   Future needs and plans:
                                                   • TenneT industrial postdoc in
                                                      combination with MITIGATE-HARM.
                                                   • Possible reaching out to power
                                                      system simulation companies to
                                                      offer integration.
 HVDC models for RTDS with ratings 2 GW,           • One-of-a-kind library, used and
 ±525 kV, and adjusted CIGRE B4 ratings based         referenced by CIGRE B4 and EU
 on TenneT substation and cable design. It is         project PROSECCO.
 created for the old NovaCor 1.0.                  • Used in teaching, and for NN-library
 Available here: https://github.com/control-          creation.
 protection-grids-tudelft/HVDC-RTDS-models
                                               Plans to upgrade:
                                               • Transfer to NovaCor 2.0 as the part of
                                                  UTOPYS project.
 Neural network libraries for RTDS used for • One-of-a-kind libraries, advertized
 HVDC control, available as open source. It is    by RTDS worldwide.
 created for the old NovaCor 1.0 and:
 • Tested for adaptive PI MMC control: Plans to upgrade:
    https://github.com/control-protection-     • Transfer to NovaCor 2.0 as the part of
    grids-tudelft/RTDS_NN_models                  UTOPYS project.
 • Tested for adaptive deadbeat MPC control: • Additional MSc theses to design
    https://github.com/control-protection-        more neural network topologies.
    grids-tudelft/SUNRISE_MPC


Besides software purely solutions, there are works on the integration of hierarchical control,
protection and fault location concepts developed in projects SAFE-GRID (NWO VENI), EU
project PROSECCO and HARMONY. The list is found in the following table.
Confidential                                                                        3/4/2026


 Solution name                                  Current state and plans for upgrade
 Hierarchical control for the centralized       •   To be issued patent during summer
 and decentralized control written in C++           2026.
 and Julia with offline and real-time testing   •   To be deployed inside Aquila setup
 capabilities. It includes: AC/DC OPF (from         (UK’s InterOPERA) in the upcoming 2-3
 ACDC-OpFlow), and decentralized control            months as the vendor-agnostic solution
 design (PI, MPC with rodust and adaptive           for one MMC terminal. It will increase
 variants).                                         its TRL to 6.
 Easy deployable to any real-time target
 (FPGA, GTSOC 2.0, or microcontroller).         Plans to upgrade:
                                                • Addition of multiple control algorithms,
                                                   integration in PACS and DCGC.

                                                Future needs and plans:
                                                • GE is interested in the toolbox, and it
                                                   might result in industrial project.
 Hierarchical protection for the HVDC fault • To be issued patent by the end of 2026.
 detection, and location. Written in Julia and
 C++. Easy deployable to any real-time target Plans to upgrade:
 (FPGA, GTSOC 2.0, or microcontroller).        • Addition of multiple control algorithms,
                                                 integration in PACS and DCGC.

                                                Future needs and plans:
                                                • GE is interested in the toolbox, and it
                                                   might result in industrial project.


Hardware solutions
The hardware solutions at this stage represents three products: PACS, DCGC, and DCSS.

 Solution name                                  Current state and plans for the upgrade
 PACS (Protection and Control System) is        • To be released and tested by the end of
 designed as part of PROSECCO project. It          2026.
 includes hierarchical control and              • To examine future plans: patent, or a
 protection solutions integrated on the            start-up product.
 FPGA device.                                   • No additional funding required at this
                                                   stage.

                                                Future needs and plans:
                                                • Control and protection expandable
                                                   solution with adaptive C&P algorithms.
                                                   Work to be financed through EXPAND-
Confidential                                                                      3/4/2026


                                                  HVDC project (continuation of
                                                  InterOPERA), which I coordinate.




 DC Grid Controller (DCGC) will represent •       Work to be started in 2027.
 as digital substation that includes future- •    Funding through 2-3 years TenneT
 ready interoperability aspects [4]. It aims to   industrial postdoc (under negotiation).
 replace the control centre system and all its
 applications for SCADA, grid calculations
 (EMS), load frequency control (LFC),
 scheduling, etc., and provide those
 capabilities and functionalities in a modular
 way.
 It will be based on the SEAPATH open-
 source substation, and ACDC-OpFlow
 integrated.




 DC Switching Station (DCSS) represents a •       Work to be started in 2027.
 controller of the switchyard providing the •     Funding through EXPAND-HVDC
 communication between IEDs, and                  project which I coordinate.
 modular connection point for the additional •    It will be patented.
 and expandable HVDC grid.
Confidential                                                                       3/4/2026


Testing procedures and setups
Setups for PHIL using Imperix MMC and Imperix 2-level VSCs, which would ensure TRL6
testing for all different RES topologies. Namely, MMC is used for HVDC terminals, while 2-
level converter is used for PV, BESS, wind and hydrogen connections.

Currently one project (Inter-oPEn) develops PHIL setup for the GFM control of offshore wind
farms. One more project is ongoing, named GF4EU.

In the ESP lab facilities exist both MMC and 2-level VSC (borrowed from PVMD). In near future
should be invested in purchasing two 2-level VSC to enable GSC-MSC connection, and at
least two more power amplifiers as Triphase is outdated.




           IEPG
                              IEPG
           Asset
                              Asset
                                                                IEPG
                                                                Asset
Furthermore, the efforts will be invested to preserve InterOPERA equipment by frequent
interaction between actors in ENTSO-E interoperability workstream. New vendors will be
contacted, e.g. Toshiba.

In the upcoming project EXPAND-HVDC will be tested interoperability of protection
solutions and IEDs.

Courses and training programs
The Interoperability program will have the training material in the format of MOOC, with
addition of libraries, and TU Delft-owned courses with PAO outreach:

   •   MOOC "Control and protection of HVDC/AC electrical grids" offered by IEEE IES and
       the GitHub library of models following the course:
       I am the responsible instructor for the MOOC and teach 1/3 of the course material.
       The MOOC is recorded in co-financing of the EU project SUNRISE and IEEE IES
Confidential                                                                       3/4/2026


       sponsorship based on the successful proposal. I have managed to engage 15
       lecturers in this course, both from academia and industry. The course is hosted as an
       open-source,                free,           IEEE             IES             webinar:
       https://resourcecenter.ies.ieee.org/education/short-courses-protection-basics.
       The course material is also supported with the open-source RSCAD/RTDS and
       MATLAB libraries and models, which can be found here: https://github.com/control-
       protection-grids-tudelft/Control-and-protection-of-HVDC-AC-electrical-grids-IEEE-
       IES-MOOC.
       This MOOC covers the teaching material currently unavailable or in the limited format
       available at universities worldwide. It also represents a relevant topic both for
       academia and industry. After finishing the course and passing the end quiz, attendees
       can claim 74 PDH (equivalent to 3 ECTS).
   •   Electrical Power Systems of the Future – EE4545, ECTS 5, MSc course – responsible
       instructor (2023/2024-ongoing).
       I have included teaching of the control of HVDC-based electrical grids in the course
       material. And formulated practical sessions as RTDS hardware-in-the-loop
       experiments. This is a completely novel approach for teaching, and having one of the
       largest RTDS laboratories in the world helps with sharing the knowledge about real-
       time simulations and testing feasible for our MSc studies.
       From this year, 2026, the course is being sold as PAO.
   •   IEPG summer school material will be offered from summer 2028.

   3. Program future
The Interoperability program will be funded through diverse projects: industrial grants, EU
projects, national funding and industrial actions. In the upcoming 5 years, the focus will be
given to the establishment of the stable product line, patenting, publication of results, and
ensuring further financing.

After 5 years, the program should evolve towards one start-up by applying to EIC Accelerator
EU grant. Furthermore, with frequent collaboration with TenneT, it might be established TU
Delft-TenneT institute.

   4. Resources
Summary of existing and list of needed resources:
  • Lab space exists in the backyard, and it can be fully employed;
  • Power electronics hardware: Imperix MMC (exists), Imperix 2-level converter x 2;
  • Grid emulator: power amplifier x 2;
  • Measurement instruments: oscilloscope, signal generator;
  • Software licenses: PSCAD
Confidential                                                                     3/4/2026


   •   Servers: 2 working stations (exist);
   •   Maintenance
   •   Consumables
   •   Connection to 5-10 RTDS racks in RTDS Lab (exists)

 Category                                   Investment needed
 Imperix 2-level converter x 2              200 k€
 Oscilloscope,       signal      generator, 50 k€
 measurement equipment
 Power amplifier x 2                          200 k€
 Software                                     10 k€ per year
 Maintenance/consumables                      2-3 k€ per year

The program can start operation with the currently owned resources, and increase gradually
through project funding.




   5. Organization
The program will be run by:
   • Program director – Aleksandra Lekić;
   • Technical manager – Remko Koornneef;
   • Research engineers;
   • PhD students;
   • Admin support – IT and DCC.
Confidential                                                                        3/4/2026


Governance structure:
   • Reporting lines: the program director is directly reporting to the ESP Lab director and
      department head;
   • IP ownership policy: the results will be owned by TU Delft, with different access
      rights depending on each different product and solution;
   • Industry collaboration framework: goes through the program director and technical
      manager directly with industry partners.

The program’s lab space will be available for use to all ESE department members after
detailed planning and consultation with the program director and technical manager. All lab
users will have to adhere to guidelines for the lab access and equipment use. TU Delft owned
equipment will be usable to anyone using the lab. However, vendor equipment under NDA,
will be usable only to the individuals whose names are clearly specified on the NDA.
Furthermore, at some points one or more (of three) laboratory spaces might be out of use
due to IP protection, and NDAs (e.g. InterOPERA project).

   6. Risk assessment
               Risk                          Impact    Mitigation
               Funding delay                 Medium    Diversify grant sources
               Equipment underutilization    High      Industry partnerships
               Talent shortage               High      PhD pipeline
               Tech obsolescence             Medium    Modular infrastructure


References
[1] “Implementation Plan on HVDC & DC Technologies,” European Commission, SET Plan
Secretariat, October 2021.
[2] ENTSO-E, “Position on Offshore Development – Interoperability,” January 2021.
[3] ENTSO-E, “RDI Roadmap 2024 – 2034, Innovation Missions to build the power system
for a Carbon-Neutral Europe,” 2024.
[4] ENTSO-E, Interoperability,
https://www.entsoe.eu/technopedia/techsheets/interoperability/.
Confidential   3/4/2026


Annex 1
